---
layout: documentation
title: PyBuilder Release Notes - Versions 0.10.x
list_title: Versions 0.10.x
---

# Release Notes - Version 0.10.x

## Version 0.10.63
* Fixed a regression introduced in `0.10.62` where the unit test reports generated by the `python.unittest` plugin would always be empty.

## Version 0.10.62
* Allow to specify a custom unittest runner. See [PR](https://github.com/pybuilder/pybuilder/pull/140) for more information (pull request by [arcivanov](https://github.com/arcivanov).

## Version 0.10.61
* pycharm plugin: Generate entries for unit and integration test directories (if respective plugins are activated) and mark them as test sources (pull request by [arcivanov](https://github.com/arcivanov))

## Version 0.10.60
* sphinx plugin:  you can now configure sphinx_doc_author, sphinx_doc_builder, sphinx_project_name, sphinx_project_version via project.set_property in your build.py (pull request by @locolupo)
* sphinx plugin: pyb --start-project now asking for a documentation folder (pull request by @locolupo)
* sphinx plugin: new task, `sphinx_quickstart` (pull request by @locolupo)
* install dependencies plugin: Setting the property `install_dependencies_local_mapping` to a dictionary
   allows to specify where the dependencies are to be installed locally.
   The dictionary should map dependency names to paths where the dependencies should be installed.

## Version 0.10.59
* integrationtest plugin: The property `integrationtest_always_verbose` can now be used to always display the integration test output, even when the tests are green. Pull request by [@snordhausen](https://github.com/snordhausen)

## Version 0.10.58
* Fixed python3 incompatibility introduced in 0.10.57

## Version 0.10.57
* Using editable URLs in a `requirements.txt` file now works - integrating the requirements into PyBuilder with `project.depends_on_requirements("requirements.txt")` was not generating the correct setup script.

## Version 0.10.56
* Resolved problems where the python unittest plugin would cause a crash when a test failed with an exception containing non-ascii text. 

## Version 0.10.55
* Resolved python3 compatibility issue introduced with `0.10.54`

## Version 0.10.54
* Improved the cyclic dependency detection algorithm used to resolve task dependencies
* Added possibility for tasks to introspect their dependencies (see [#122](https://github.com/pybuilder/pybuilder/issues/122))

## Version 0.10.53
*  Fix autoversioning for older git version like found on RHEL6.

   Pull request by [@schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo), thanks!

## Version 0.10.52
* Ignore errors while trying to save coverage data
  This fixes #119. In cases where there is no coverage data at all, saving
  leads to an error, which would crash the build even if
  `coverage_break_build` was set to False.

## Version 0.10.51
* The snakefood plugin will now pull in the snakefood dependency as intended.

## Version 0.10.50
* The snakefood plugin will now generate external and internal project reports (external dependencies and internal dependencies, respectively).

## Version 0.10.49
* Added API functionality to automatically version the project based on the version control system.

## Version 0.10.48
* Sonarqube plugin: Should now correctly report coverage.

## Version 0.10.46
* Sonarqube plugin: Fixed source path setting.

## Version 0.10.45
* Coverage plugin: now writes a cobertura compatible XML report to the reports directory.
* New plugin: [sonarqube plugin](/documentation/plugins.html#SonarQubeintegration), which can be used to run sonar analysis.

## Version 0.10.44
* Coverage plugin: Should now work with coveralls without further adjustements since a coverage data file is written.

## Version 0.10.43
* Coverage plugin: Try really hard to work well with coveralls
    
    The coverage configuration is used to tell coverage to avoid covering the python
    stdlib if possible, and also specifies the source root to cover.
    Additionally a .coverage file is written in the coverage root, so that
    it can be consumed by coveralls.


## Version 0.10.42
* detect teamcity environment automatically

    If the environment variable TEAMCITY_VERSION is set, teamcity output will be
    generated automatically. It can still be forced with the project
    property "teamcity_output", and setting both the property and the
    environment variable will also result in teamcity specific output being
    generated.


## Version 0.10.41
* Default project version (when no version is given in the `build.py` is now 1.0.dev0 instead of 1.0-SNAPSHOT, as per PEP 440. Pull request by [@zroadhouse-wsm](https://github.com/zroadhouse-wsm), thanks!

## Version 0.10.40
* Improved error messages when the setup commands from `python.distutils` fail.
* Naming a script (`src/main/scripts/foo`) like a package
  (`src/main/python/foo/__init__.py`) now works without any specific configuration.
  Technical detail: the property `dir_dist_scripts` is now set to `"scripts"` by
  default instead of `None`.

## Version 0.10.39
* Resolved problems with the python core plugin on windows. Packages with leading backslashes were leading to problems with the setup script. Thanks to [@SzeMengTan](https://github.com/SzeMengTan) for reporting.

## Version 0.10.38
* Initial version of a sphinx plugin. Pull request by [@tjpnz](https://github.com/tjpnz), thanks!.

## Version 0.10.37
*  Fix using the `dir_dist_scripts` property in python3 which was breaking the setup script.
   Thanks to [@raphiz](https://github.com/raphiz) for the pull request!

## Version 0.10.36
* Coverage plugin: ignored modules will no longer contribute to the
  overall coverage calculation [(referring to the modules or packages
  in `coverage_exceptions`)](/documentation/plugins.html#Measuringunittestcoverage).
  Thanks to [@MirkoRossini](https://github.com/MirkoRossini) for the pull
  request!

## Version 0.10.35
* The generated setup.py is now correct even if the `$dir_source_main_python` contains a trailing slash.
  See [issue 110](https://github.com/pybuilder/pybuilder/issues/110) for more details.
  Thanks @MirkoRossini for reporting!
* The `pyb -Qt` line format is now `$task_name:$task_description`.
  This allows for better completions by also exposing the task names.

## Version 0.10.34
* The jedi linter has been externalized, please use `pypi:pybuilder_jedi_plugin` now.
* The task list (-t) in very quiet mode (-Q) will now output space separated task data.


## Version 0.10.33
* The `filter_resources` plugin will now warn and skip keys that can not be replaced. This allows the use of `string.Template` in source files that go through the `filter_resources` plugin.

## Version 0.10.32
* implement using requirements files as dependencies

## Version 0.10.31
* Improved output of the jedi plugin

## Version 0.10.30
* Resolved some problems with the bundled jedi plugin

## Version 0.10.29
* Added plugin `jedi_linter` (EXPERIMENTAL)

## Version 0.10.28
* Resolved a python 3 compatibility problem with the `exec` plugin.

## Version 0.10.27
* Added another pybuilder command `pyb_`. which is a binary (`.exe`) on windows installations of PyBuilder.
  This should be used instead of the `pyb` script on windows installations.

## Version 0.10.26
* install_dependencies should now work as intended on windows.

## Version 0.10.25
* Fixed a problem when the installed pip had no __version__ which is the case of old installations.

## Version 0.10.24
* Fixed a problem with the distutils plugin. Using slashes in `distutils_commands` resulted in problems as it was interpreted as a path. This is now resolved.

## Version 0.10.23
* It is now possible to use the `distutils_commands` property for an automated upload, since
  the distutils_plugin will now do the right thing when presented with a command with spaces,
  like [`sdist upload`]

## Version 0.10.22
* Unit tests names will now be logged to DEBUG as they run. Thanks [@aelgru](https://github.com/aelgru)!
* Introduced a new property for the [`install_dependencies` plugin](/documentation/plugins.html#Installingdependencies),
`install_dependencies_insecure_installation`.

## Version 0.10.21
* Maintenance release (updated trove classifiers for PyPI)

## Version 0.10.20
* The `--start-project` (to get started with a new project) now suggests the default scripts directory and creates it. Files in this folder will automatically be shipped as scripts (as in the setup.py `scripts` kwarg) which might be `/usr/bin` or `/usr/local/bin` or so, depending on your system.

## Version 0.10.19
* The frosted and flake8 linter now consider the property `frosted|flake8_include_scripts`. If this is set to True (default False) then all scripts in `$dir_source_main_scripts` will be linted too.
* The integrationtest plugin may now pass arbitrary additional command line parts to the integrationtest call. The property `integrationtest_additional_commandline` can be used for that purpose.

## Version 0.10.18
* Python files in `$dir_source_main_python` (`src/main/python` by default) are now treated as standalone python modules. Previously, it was only possible to package python files by putting them in a package.

## Version 0.10.17
* The `frosted_property` now works as intended.

## Version 0.10.16
* The pycharm plugin now ignores the `target` directory by default.

## Version 0.10.15
* Fixed a minor rendering issue in integrationtest_parallel

## Version 0.10.14
* External plugin support : It is now finally possible to use plugins
  published to PyPI. See [the manual](/documentation/writing-plugins.html) for more information.

## Version 0.10.13
* Cram support : The [`python.cram`](/documentation/plugins.html#RunningCramtests) plugin can be used to run [cram](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/cram) tests. Kudos go to [@esc](https://github.com/esc) for the implementation.

## Version 0.10.12
* [Bldsup support](/documentation/plugins.html#Splittingupyourbuild.pywithbldsup) : custom tasks and per-project specifics can be stored in a separate directory (default: `bldsup`). Kudos go to [@markmevans](https://github.com/markmevans) for implementing this.

## Version 0.10.11
* New plugin : [python.frosted](/documentation/plugins.html#Frostedplugin)
* New API to write plugins that wrap a console command that is run on source files
* Flake8 error handling improved

## Version 0.10.10
* It should no longer occur that CI servers count unit tests twice when coverage is used.
* TeamCity service messages for unit test failures are now well-formed

## Version 0.10.8
* The property "teamcity_output" can be set to True so that teamcity messages are produced by the `python.unittest` and `python.integrationtest` plugin.
Please note that the coverage plugin also runs unit tests and might lead to teamcity counting the amount of unit tests twice.

## Version 0.10.6
* `pyb --start-project` now activates the plugin `python.install_dependencies` by default.

## Version 0.10.5
* `pyb --start-project` will now suggest a few plugins.

## Version 0.10.4
* `pyb --start-project` now always generates an initializer so that plugin can be configured more easily.
* There is now a workaround for [a distutils bug](http://bugs.python.org/issue8876) available through the distutils plugin. See [the GitHub issue](https://github.com/pybuilder/pybuilder/issues/56) or [the documentation](http://pybuilder.github.io/documentation/plugins.html#VirtualBoxpitfallwithbinarydists).

## Version 0.10.3
* The unittest, pyfix and integrationtest plugins now find modules (or files, for the integrationtest plugin) using globs.
Kudos to [markmevans](https://github.com/markmevans) for this feature!

## Version 0.10.2
* Fixed a bug leading to the creation of strange files when dependencies with a version greater than x (`foo>=1.0`) were specified.

## Version 0.10.1
* Source and test directories are now correctly handed to the unittest's PYTHONPATH, thus it is no longer a pain to test a package which is also locally installed.

## Version 0.10.0
* Better reporting when unittests fail. Thanks [@esc](https://github.com/esc)!
* The parallel integration test progress bar now uses backspaces instead of carriage returns. This improves the experience on small width terminals.
* The deprecated module `pythonbuilder` has now been removed. Please replace `pythonbuilder` with `pybuilder` in your imports if that is not already the case.
